---
title: Re-use pre 8.0 Javascript authentication adapters in MFP 8.0 authentication
date: 2018-11-29
tags:
- MobileFirst_Foundation
- Security
- MFP
version:
- 8.0
- 7.x
author:
  name: Vivin Krishnan
---

### The problem

One of the major changes introduced with IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation v8.0 is the concept of SecurityChecks. A security check is a server-side entity that implements the security logic for protecting server-side application resources. In MFP 8.0, a security check can only be implemented as a Java adapter. 

While this gives a developer lot of flexibility with what can be implemented, it may not be a happy story when migrating from an earlier version to 8.0. More so, when authentication was previously implemented entirely in Java script within an adapter ( adapter based authentication). Instead of porting and re-implementing all that Javascript logic in Java, have you wondered if there is a way to re-use. 

What if there is a way..

>Note: You still need to move your pre 8.0 Javascript adapter files (.xml and .js) into the new 8.0 Javascript adapter project. Pre 8.0 Javascript adapters cannot be deployed as-is. 
>Refer [Creating Adapters](http://mobilefirstplatform.ibmcloud.com/tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/adapters/creating-adapters/) tutorial on how to create a new Javascript adapter

### The solution 

All MFP adapters (except Security Check adapters) are available as REST endpoints. Once the Javascript logic that did authentication in the previous versions has been deployed as a MFP 8.0 Javascript adapter, it can be invoked from within the security check as a REST endpoint. Based on the response from the Javascript adapter, the security check logic can determine if authentication can be considered complete.


### The pre-requisites

* The Javascript adapters from previous versions must be ported in as a MFP 8.0 Javascript adapter. 

* The Javascript adapter procedure, that will be invoked by the security check , must be marked unprotected


	```bash
	<procedure name="<procedure name>" secured="false"/>
	```

* Any required code change (to API signatures) must be done prior to deploying the Javascript adapter.

### The implementation

>This is a sample implementation. It may need to be modified to suite your enterprise needs.

A working sample that has a Java SecurityCheck adapter invoking a Javascript adapter is available [here](https://github.ibm.com/vivinkrishnan/reuse-jsadapterauthentication-mfp80).

### Final thoughts

We have seen how authentication logic developed in pre-8.0 Javascript adapters can be reused to a great extent in MFP 8.0 .

