tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/upgrading/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Migrating from Earlier Releases
weight: 12
---
## Overview
{: #overview }
{{ site.data.keys.product_full }} v8.0 introduces new concepts for application development and deployment, and some API changes. Learn about these changes to prepare and plan for the migration of your MobileFirst applications.

> [Review the Migration Cookbook](migration-cookbook) to quickly get started with the migration process.

#### Jump to
{: #jump-to }
* [Why migrate to {{ site.data.keys.product_full }} 8.0](#why-migrate-to-ibm-mobilefirst-foundation-80)
* [Changes in the development and deployment process](#changes-in-the-development-and-deployment-process)
* [Migrating a Cordova or hybrid application](#migrating-a-cordova-or-hybrid-application)
* [Migrating a native application](#migrating-a-native-application)
* [Migrating adapters and security](#migrating-adapters-and-security)
* [Migrating push notifications support](#migrating-push-notifications-support)
* [Changes in the server databases and in the server structure](#changes-in-the-server-databases-and-in-the-server-structure)
* [Storing mobile data in Cloudant](#storing-mobile-data-in-cloudant)
* [Applying a fix pack to {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}](#applying-a-fix-pack-to-mobilefirst-server)

## Why migrate to IBM MobileFirst Foundation 8.0
{: #why-migrate-to-ibm-mobilefirst-foundation-80}

### Reduce Effort, Skill and Time Required to Build Apps
* Build apps faster, simpler and smarter with standard package managers (npm, CocoaPods, Gradle, NuGet) and Maven for Java Adapter build automation
* New simpler, modular, and easier to plug-in MobileFirst SDKs
* New and improved overall user experience including anticipating users’ next best action and providing guided help throughout for registering, configuring and deploying apps

### Enhanced Automation, and New Dev and IT Self-Service
* New Live Update feature to externalize and dynamically change app configurable information (Push Notifications, Authentication, Adapters, App behavior and workflow)
* Completely rethought, radically simplified Console user experience for registering, deploying and managing apps
* A new simpler app architecture that eliminates the need for Dev and IT interdependence
* Improved problem determination with new crash analytics, configurable alerts, and root cause analysis
* Improved Push Notifications services enables targeted, subscription-based notifications sent from web console

### More Hybrid Cloud Deployment Options
* One-click provision of MobileFirst Foundation development, testing, and fully scalable production environments on IBM Cloud Public
* Integrated with IBM DevOps Services and Urban Code for building your deployment pipelines

### Multi-channel API creation and management
* Step up API Connect multichannel security with mobile specific security extensions (e.g. Step Up, Multifactor) for maximum protection, then enforce in the DMZ with IBM DataPower
* Create and define API Connect-compatible Swagger REST APIs in Foundation v8 then Manage and Secure them in API Connect

## Changes in the development and deployment process
{: #changes-in-the-development-and-deployment-process }
> For a quick hands-on experience of the development process with {{ site.data.keys.product }} V8.0.0, you can review the [Quick Start tutorials](../quick-start).

In this version of the product, you no longer create a project WAR file that needs to be installed in the application server that is running {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} before you can upload your apps. Instead, {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is installed once, and you upload the server-side **configuration** of your apps, of the resource security, or of the push service to the server. You can modify the configuration of your apps with the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}. You can also upload a new **configuration file** for your apps by using a command-line tool or the server REST API.

MobileFirst projects no longer exist. Instead, you develop your mobile app with the development environment of your choice. You develop the server-side of your application separately, in Java™ or in JavaScript. You can develop adapters with Apache Maven or a Maven enabled IDE such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, and others.

In previous versions, applications were deployed to the server by uploading a .wlapp file. The file contained data that described the application and for hybrid applications, the web resources. In v8.0, the .wlapp file is replaced by an application descriptor JSON file for registering an app to the server. For Cordova applications that use Direct Update, instead of uploading a new version of the .wlapp, you now upload a web resource archive to the server.

When you develop your app, you use the {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }} for many tasks, such as registering an app to its target server or uploading its server-side configuration.

### Discontinued features and replacement path
{: #discontinued-features-and-replacement-path}
{{ site.data.keys.product }} V8.0.0 is radically simplified compared to the previous version. As a result of this simplification, some features that were available in V7.1 are discontinued in v8.0.

> For more information about discontinued features and replacement path, see [Features that are discontinued in v8.0 and features that are not included in v8.0](../product-overview/release-notes/deprecated-discontinued).

## Migrating a Cordova or hybrid application
{: #migrating-a-cordova-or-hybrid-application }
You start developing Cordova apps with the Apache Cordova command-line tool or with a Cordova enabled IDE such as Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, IntelliJ, and others.

Add support for the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} features by adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} plug-ins to your app. For more information about the differences between V7.1 Cordova or hybrid apps and V8.0 Cordova apps, see [Comparison of Cordova apps developed with v8.0 versus v7.1 and before](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#comparison-of-cordova-apps-developed-with-v-80-versus-v-71-and-before).

To migrate a Cordova or hybrid app, you need to

* For planning purposes, run the migration assistance tool on your existing project. Review the generated report and assess the effort required for migration. For more information, see [Starting the Cordova app migration with the migration assistance tool](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#starting-the-cordova-app-migration-with-the-migration-assistance-tool).
* Replace the client-side APIs that are discontinued or not in V8.0.0. For a list of API changes, see [Upgrading the WebView](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#upgrading-the-webview).
* Modify the call to client resources that use the classic security model. For example, use the `WLResourceRequest` API instead of `WL.Client.invokeProcedure`, which is deprecated.
* If you use Direct Update, review [Migrating Direct Update](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#migrating-direct-update).
* For more information about migrating Cordova or hybrid apps, see [Migrating existing Cordova and hybrid applications](migrating-client-applications/cordova).

> **Note:** The migration of push notification support requires client-side and server-side changes and is described later on in Migrating push notification support.

## Migrating a native application
{: #migrating-a-native-application }
To migrate native application, you need to follow these steps:

* For planning purpose, run the migration assistance tool on your existing project. Review the generated report and assess the effort required for migration.
* Update your project to use the SDK from {{ site.data.keys.product }} v8.0
* Replace the client-side APIs that are discontinued or not in v8.0. The migration assistance tool can scan your code and generate reports of the APIs to replace.
* Modify the call to client resources that use the classic security model. For example, use the `WLResourceRequest` API, instead of `invokeProcedure`, which is deprecated.
    * For more information about migrating native iOS apps, see [Migrating existing native iOS applications](migrating-client-applications/ios).
    * For more information about migrating native Android apps, see [Migrating existing native Android applications](migrating-client-applications/android).
    * For more information about migrating native Windows apps, see [Migrating existing native Windows applications](migrating-client-applications/windows).

> **Note:** The migration of push notification support requires client-side and server-side changes and is described later on in [Migrating push notification support](#migrating-push-notifications-support).

## Migrating adapters and security
{: #migrating-adapters-and-security }
Starting with v8.0, adapters are Maven projects. The {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} security framework is based on OAuth, security scopes, and security checks. Security scopes define the security requirements to access a resource. Security checks define how a security requirement is verified. Security checks are written as Java adapters. For a hands-on experience with adapters and security, see the tutorials for [Creating Java and JavaScript Adapters](../adapters/creating-adapters) and [Authorization concepts](../authentication-and-security).

{{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} operates only in session-independent mode and adapters should not store a state locally to a Java virtual machine (JVM).

You can externalize adapter properties to configure adapters for the context where they run, for example a test server or a production server. But the values of these properties are no longer included in a property file of a project WAR file. Instead, you define them from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}, or by using a command-line tool or the server REST API.

* For more information about migrating adapters, see [Migrating existing adapters](migrating-adapters) to work under {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} v8.0.
* For more information about server-side API changes, see [Server-side API](../product-overview/release-notes/deprecated-discontinued/#server-side-api-changes) changes in v8.0.
* For an introduction to Apache Maven used to develop adapters, see [Adapters as Apache Maven projects](../adapters).
* For more information on migrating authentication and security see [Migrating Authentication and Security](migrating-security) to {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} v8.0.

## Migrating push notifications support
{: #migrating-push-notifications-support }
The event-source-based model is no longer supported. Instead, use tag-based notification. To learn more about migrating push notification for your client apps and your server-side components, see [Migrating push notifications](migrating-push-notifications) from event source-based notifications and [Migration scenarios](migrating-push-notifications/#migration-scenarios).

Starting with v8.0, you configure the push service on the server side. The push certificates are stored on the server. You can set them from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} or you can automate certificate uploads by using a command-line tool or the push service REST API. You can also send push notifications from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}.

The push service is protected by the OAuth security model. You must configure server-side components that use the push service REST API must be configured as confidential clients of {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

### Push notifications data migration tool
{: #push-notifications-data-migration-tool }
Also available is a migration tool for push notifications data. The migration tool helps in migrating MobileFirst Platform Foundation 7.1 push data (devices, user subscriptions, credentials & tags) to {{ site.data.keys.product }} 8.0.

> [Learn more about the migration tool](migrating-push-notifications/#migration-tool).

## Changes in the server databases and in the server structure
{: #changes-in-the-server-databases-and-in-the-server-structure }
{{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} enables changes to app security, connectivity and push without code change, app rebuild or redeployment. But these changes imply changes in the database schemas, the data stored in the database, and the installation process.

Because of these changes, {{ site.data.keys.product }} does not include automated scripts to migrate your databases from earlier versions to V8.0.0 or to upgrade an existing server installation. To move new versions of your apps to V8.0.0, install a new server that you can run side by side with your previous server. Then, upgrade your apps and adapters to V8.0.0 and deploy them to the new server.

## Storing mobile data in Cloudant
{: #storing-mobile-data-in-cloudant }
Storing mobile data in Cloudant  with the IMFData framework or CloudantToolkit is no longer supported. For an alternative API, see [Migrating apps storing mobile data in Cloudant with IMFData or Cloudant SDK](migrating-data).

## Applying a fix pack to {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}
{: #applying-a-fix-pack-to-mobilefirst-server }
Find out how to use the Server Configuration Tool to upgrade {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} V8.0.0 to a fix pack or an interim fix. Alternatively, if you installed {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} with Ant tasks, you can also use Ant tasks to apply the fix pack or interim fix.

To apply an interim fix or fix pack on {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}, choose one of the following topics based on your initial installation method:

* [Applying a fix pack or an interim fix with the Server Configuration Tool](../installation-configuration/production/appserver/#applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-server-configuration-tool)
* [Applying a fix pack by using the Ant files](../installation-configuration/production/appserver/#applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-ant-files)

Commit message:

WI #116691 - Provide a link to 8.0 lab from the migration doc

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/upgrading/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Migrating from Earlier Releases
weight: 12
---
## Overview
{: #overview }
{{ site.data.keys.product_full }} v8.0 introduces new concepts for application development and deployment, and some API changes. Learn about these changes to prepare and plan for the migration of your MobileFirst applications.

> [Review the Migration Cookbook](migration-cookbook) to quickly get started with the migration process.

> Use this [Lab]({{site.baseurl}}/labs/developers/8.0/advancedwallet/) to guide you through the v7.1 to v8.0 migration.

#### Jump to
{: #jump-to }
* [Why migrate to {{ site.data.keys.product_full }} 8.0](#why-migrate-to-ibm-mobilefirst-foundation-80)
* [Changes in the development and deployment process](#changes-in-the-development-and-deployment-process)
* [Migrating a Cordova or hybrid application](#migrating-a-cordova-or-hybrid-application)
* [Migrating a native application](#migrating-a-native-application)
* [Migrating adapters and security](#migrating-adapters-and-security)
* [Migrating push notifications support](#migrating-push-notifications-support)
* [Changes in the server databases and in the server structure](#changes-in-the-server-databases-and-in-the-server-structure)
* [Storing mobile data in Cloudant](#storing-mobile-data-in-cloudant)
* [Applying a fix pack to {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}](#applying-a-fix-pack-to-mobilefirst-server)

## Why migrate to IBM MobileFirst Foundation 8.0
{: #why-migrate-to-ibm-mobilefirst-foundation-80}

### Reduce Effort, Skill and Time Required to Build Apps
* Build apps faster, simpler and smarter with standard package managers (npm, CocoaPods, Gradle, NuGet) and Maven for Java Adapter build automation
* New simpler, modular, and easier to plug-in MobileFirst SDKs
* New and improved overall user experience including anticipating users’ next best action and providing guided help throughout for registering, configuring and deploying apps

### Enhanced Automation, and New Dev and IT Self-Service
* New Live Update feature to externalize and dynamically change app configurable information (Push Notifications, Authentication, Adapters, App behavior and workflow)
* Completely rethought, radically simplified Console user experience for registering, deploying and managing apps
* A new simpler app architecture that eliminates the need for Dev and IT interdependence
* Improved problem determination with new crash analytics, configurable alerts, and root cause analysis
* Improved Push Notifications services enables targeted, subscription-based notifications sent from web console

### More Hybrid Cloud Deployment Options
* One-click provision of MobileFirst Foundation development, testing, and fully scalable production environments on IBM Cloud Public
* Integrated with IBM DevOps Services and Urban Code for building your deployment pipelines

### Multi-channel API creation and management
* Step up API Connect multichannel security with mobile specific security extensions (e.g. Step Up, Multifactor) for maximum protection, then enforce in the DMZ with IBM DataPower
* Create and define API Connect-compatible Swagger REST APIs in Foundation v8 then Manage and Secure them in API Connect

## Changes in the development and deployment process
{: #changes-in-the-development-and-deployment-process }
> For a quick hands-on experience of the development process with {{ site.data.keys.product }} V8.0.0, you can review the [Quick Start tutorials](../quick-start).

In this version of the product, you no longer create a project WAR file that needs to be installed in the application server that is running {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} before you can upload your apps. Instead, {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is installed once, and you upload the server-side **configuration** of your apps, of the resource security, or of the push service to the server. You can modify the configuration of your apps with the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}. You can also upload a new **configuration file** for your apps by using a command-line tool or the server REST API.

MobileFirst projects no longer exist. Instead, you develop your mobile app with the development environment of your choice. You develop the server-side of your application separately, in Java™ or in JavaScript. You can develop adapters with Apache Maven or a Maven enabled IDE such as Eclipse, IntelliJ, and others.

In previous versions, applications were deployed to the server by uploading a .wlapp file. The file contained data that described the application and for hybrid applications, the web resources. In v8.0, the .wlapp file is replaced by an application descriptor JSON file for registering an app to the server. For Cordova applications that use Direct Update, instead of uploading a new version of the .wlapp, you now upload a web resource archive to the server.

When you develop your app, you use the {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }} for many tasks, such as registering an app to its target server or uploading its server-side configuration.

### Discontinued features and replacement path
{: #discontinued-features-and-replacement-path}
{{ site.data.keys.product }} V8.0.0 is radically simplified compared to the previous version. As a result of this simplification, some features that were available in V7.1 are discontinued in v8.0.

> For more information about discontinued features and replacement path, see [Features that are discontinued in v8.0 and features that are not included in v8.0](../product-overview/release-notes/deprecated-discontinued).

## Migrating a Cordova or hybrid application
{: #migrating-a-cordova-or-hybrid-application }
You start developing Cordova apps with the Apache Cordova command-line tool or with a Cordova enabled IDE such as Visual Studio Code, Eclipse, IntelliJ, and others.

Add support for the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} features by adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} plug-ins to your app. For more information about the differences between V7.1 Cordova or hybrid apps and V8.0 Cordova apps, see [Comparison of Cordova apps developed with v8.0 versus v7.1 and before](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#comparison-of-cordova-apps-developed-with-v-80-versus-v-71-and-before).

To migrate a Cordova or hybrid app, you need to

* For planning purposes, run the migration assistance tool on your existing project. Review the generated report and assess the effort required for migration. For more information, see [Starting the Cordova app migration with the migration assistance tool](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#starting-the-cordova-app-migration-with-the-migration-assistance-tool).
* Replace the client-side APIs that are discontinued or not in V8.0.0. For a list of API changes, see [Upgrading the WebView](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#upgrading-the-webview).
* Modify the call to client resources that use the classic security model. For example, use the `WLResourceRequest` API instead of `WL.Client.invokeProcedure`, which is deprecated.
* If you use Direct Update, review [Migrating Direct Update](migrating-client-applications/cordova/#migrating-direct-update).
* For more information about migrating Cordova or hybrid apps, see [Migrating existing Cordova and hybrid applications](migrating-client-applications/cordova).

> **Note:** The migration of push notification support requires client-side and server-side changes and is described later on in Migrating push notification support.

## Migrating a native application
{: #migrating-a-native-application }
To migrate native application, you need to follow these steps:

* For planning purpose, run the migration assistance tool on your existing project. Review the generated report and assess the effort required for migration.
* Update your project to use the SDK from {{ site.data.keys.product }} v8.0
* Replace the client-side APIs that are discontinued or not in v8.0. The migration assistance tool can scan your code and generate reports of the APIs to replace.
* Modify the call to client resources that use the classic security model. For example, use the `WLResourceRequest` API, instead of `invokeProcedure`, which is deprecated.
    * For more information about migrating native iOS apps, see [Migrating existing native iOS applications](migrating-client-applications/ios).
    * For more information about migrating native Android apps, see [Migrating existing native Android applications](migrating-client-applications/android).
    * For more information about migrating native Windows apps, see [Migrating existing native Windows applications](migrating-client-applications/windows).

> **Note:** The migration of push notification support requires client-side and server-side changes and is described later on in [Migrating push notification support](#migrating-push-notifications-support).

## Migrating adapters and security
{: #migrating-adapters-and-security }
Starting with v8.0, adapters are Maven projects. The {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} security framework is based on OAuth, security scopes, and security checks. Security scopes define the security requirements to access a resource. Security checks define how a security requirement is verified. Security checks are written as Java adapters. For a hands-on experience with adapters and security, see the tutorials for [Creating Java and JavaScript Adapters](../adapters/creating-adapters) and [Authorization concepts](../authentication-and-security).

{{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} operates only in session-independent mode and adapters should not store a state locally to a Java virtual machine (JVM).

You can externalize adapter properties to configure adapters for the context where they run, for example a test server or a production server. But the values of these properties are no longer included in a property file of a project WAR file. Instead, you define them from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}, or by using a command-line tool or the server REST API.

* For more information about migrating adapters, see [Migrating existing adapters](migrating-adapters) to work under {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} v8.0.
* For more information about server-side API changes, see [Server-side API](../product-overview/release-notes/deprecated-discontinued/#server-side-api-changes) changes in v8.0.
* For an introduction to Apache Maven used to develop adapters, see [Adapters as Apache Maven projects](../adapters).
* For more information on migrating authentication and security see [Migrating Authentication and Security](migrating-security) to {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} v8.0.

## Migrating push notifications support
{: #migrating-push-notifications-support }
The event-source-based model is no longer supported. Instead, use tag-based notification. To learn more about migrating push notification for your client apps and your server-side components, see [Migrating push notifications](migrating-push-notifications) from event source-based notifications and [Migration scenarios](migrating-push-notifications/#migration-scenarios).

Starting with v8.0, you configure the push service on the server side. The push certificates are stored on the server. You can set them from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} or you can automate certificate uploads by using a command-line tool or the push service REST API. You can also send push notifications from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}.

The push service is protected by the OAuth security model. You must configure server-side components that use the push service REST API must be configured as confidential clients of {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

### Push notifications data migration tool
{: #push-notifications-data-migration-tool }
Also available is a migration tool for push notifications data. The migration tool helps in migrating MobileFirst Platform Foundation 7.1 push data (devices, user subscriptions, credentials & tags) to {{ site.data.keys.product }} 8.0.

> [Learn more about the migration tool](migrating-push-notifications/#migration-tool).

## Changes in the server databases and in the server structure
{: #changes-in-the-server-databases-and-in-the-server-structure }
{{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} enables changes to app security, connectivity and push without code change, app rebuild or redeployment. But these changes imply changes in the database schemas, the data stored in the database, and the installation process.

Because of these changes, {{ site.data.keys.product }} does not include automated scripts to migrate your databases from earlier versions to V8.0.0 or to upgrade an existing server installation. To move new versions of your apps to V8.0.0, install a new server that you can run side by side with your previous server. Then, upgrade your apps and adapters to V8.0.0 and deploy them to the new server.

## Storing mobile data in Cloudant
{: #storing-mobile-data-in-cloudant }
Storing mobile data in Cloudant  with the IMFData framework or CloudantToolkit is no longer supported. For an alternative API, see [Migrating apps storing mobile data in Cloudant with IMFData or Cloudant SDK](migrating-data).

## Applying a fix pack to {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}
{: #applying-a-fix-pack-to-mobilefirst-server }
Find out how to use the Server Configuration Tool to upgrade {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} V8.0.0 to a fix pack or an interim fix. Alternatively, if you installed {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} with Ant tasks, you can also use Ant tasks to apply the fix pack or interim fix.

To apply an interim fix or fix pack on {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}, choose one of the following topics based on your initial installation method:

* [Applying a fix pack or an interim fix with the Server Configuration Tool](../installation-configuration/production/appserver/#applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-server-configuration-tool)
* [Applying a fix pack by using the Ant files](../installation-configuration/production/appserver/#applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-ant-files)
