tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/analytics/console/scenario-loader/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Scenario Loader (EXPERIMENTAL)
breadcrumb_title: Scenario Loader
relevantTo: [ios,android,javascript]
weight: 4
---
## Overview
The Scenario Loader populates various Analytics Console charts and reports with test data. The data is stored in the Elasticsearch data store, safely segregated from your existing test or production data.

This tool is provided in an experimental mode and is not fully supported. Not all charts are populated.

The loaded data is synthetic in nature, injected directly into the data store. It is not the result of any actual analytics data created by the client or server. The purpose of the data is to enable the user to better view the nature of various reports and charts as displayed in the UI. Therefore the data should **not** be used for testing purposes.

#### Jump to
* [Before you start](#before-youstart)
* [Connecting to the Scenario Loader](#connecting-to-the-scenario-loader)
* [Configuring the data loading](#configuring-the-data-loading)
* [Loading and deleting the data](#loading-and-deleting-the-data)
* [Viewing the populated charts and tables](#viewing-the-populated-charts-and-tables)

## Before you start
The Scenario Loader is packaged together with the Analytics Console. Make sure your Analytics Console is running and accessible before connecting to the Scenario Loader.

## Connecting to the Scenario Loader

1. To enable the Scenario Loader, set either the JVM argument `-DwlDevEnv=true`, or the environment variable `ANALYTICS_DEBUG=true`.

2. Access the Scenario Loader in  your browser using the console URL: `http://<console-path>/scenarioLoader` where `<console-path>` is the JNDI property value defined in the `mfp-server/usr/servers/mfp/server.xml` file, for example:

    `<jndiEntry jndiName="mfp/mfp.analytics.console.url" value='"http://localhost:9080/analytics/console"'/>`

3. The Scenario Loader page, along with the Analytics Console navigation bar, are displayed. The Scenario Loader remains inaccessible from the navigation bar.

## Configuring the data loading

1. In the **Testing Configuration** section various settings are available to control the nature (**Basic** tab) and volume (**Capacity Planning** tab) of the generated data.
    Make sure the **Days of history** setting is set to at least 30 days, in order to load sufficient data.

    All available information about these settings is provided in the  **Testing Configuration** section.


1. Click on the Administration icon <img alt="wrench icond" style="margin:0;display:inline" src="wrench.png"/> and select the **Settings** tab. In the **Advanced** section make sure that the **Default tenant** value is set to `dummy_data_for_demo_purposes_only`.


## Loading and deleting the data

To load the data, click the **Start Scenario Loading** button in the **Scenario Operations** section.

To delete the data, click the **Delete Now** button in the **Testing Configuration** section.

**NB:** Read the disclaimer about data creation and deletion in the **Scenario Operations** section.

## Viewing the populated charts and tables

Once the data is loaded, many, but not all, of the charts and tables available in the Analytics Console are populated.

From the Analytics Console navigation bar, check the various pages and tabs to view the populated charts and tables.

Commit message:

Add note about the feature experimental nature.
Signed-off-by: Idan Adar <iadar@il.ibm.com>

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/analytics/console/scenario-loader/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Scenario Loader
breadcrumb_title: Scenario Loader
relevantTo: [ios,android,javascript]
weight: 4
---
## Overview

> **Note:** The Scenario Loader is *experimental* in nature and is thus not fully supported. Use accordingly.
>
> * Some charts may not get populated.

The Scenario Loader populates various Analytics Console charts and reports with test data. The data is stored in the Elasticsearch data store, safely segregated from your existing test or production data.

The loaded data is synthetic in nature, injected directly into the data store. It is not the result of any actual analytics data created by the client or server. The purpose of the data is to enable the user to better view the nature of various reports and charts as displayed in the UI. Therefore the data should **not** be used for testing purposes.

#### Jump to
* [Before you start](#before-youstart)
* [Connecting to the Scenario Loader](#connecting-to-the-scenario-loader)
* [Configuring the data loading](#configuring-the-data-loading)
* [Loading and deleting the data](#loading-and-deleting-the-data)
* [Viewing the populated charts and tables](#viewing-the-populated-charts-and-tables)

## Before you start
The Scenario Loader is packaged together with the Analytics Console. Make sure your Analytics Console is running and accessible before connecting to the Scenario Loader.

## Connecting to the Scenario Loader

1. To enable the Scenario Loader, set either the JVM argument `-DwlDevEnv=true`, or the environment variable `ANALYTICS_DEBUG=true`.

2. Access the Scenario Loader in  your browser using the console URL: `http://<console-path>/scenarioLoader` where `<console-path>` is the JNDI property value defined in the `mfp-server/usr/servers/mfp/server.xml` file, for example:

    `<jndiEntry jndiName="mfp/mfp.analytics.console.url" value='"http://localhost:9080/analytics/console"'/>`

3. The Scenario Loader page, along with the Analytics Console navigation bar, are displayed. The Scenario Loader remains inaccessible from the navigation bar.

## Configuring the data loading

1. In the **Testing Configuration** section various settings are available to control the nature (**Basic** tab) and volume (**Capacity Planning** tab) of the generated data.
    Make sure the **Days of history** setting is set to at least 30 days, in order to load sufficient data.

    All available information about these settings is provided in the  **Testing Configuration** section.


1. Click on the Administration icon <img alt="wrench icond" style="margin:0;display:inline" src="wrench.png"/> and select the **Settings** tab. In the **Advanced** section make sure that the **Default tenant** value is set to `dummy_data_for_demo_purposes_only`.


## Loading and deleting the data

To load the data, click the **Start Scenario Loading** button in the **Scenario Operations** section.

To delete the data, click the **Delete Now** button in the **Testing Configuration** section.

**NB:** Read the disclaimer about data creation and deletion in the **Scenario Operations** section.

## Viewing the populated charts and tables

Once the data is loaded, many, but not all, of the charts and tables available in the Analytics Console are populated.

From the Analytics Console navigation bar, check the various pages and tabs to view the populated charts and tables.
