tutorials/en/product-integration/8.0/datapower-as-authorization-server.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Configuring IBM WebSphere DataPower as the OAuth authorization server
breadcrumb_title: DataPower
weight: 2
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
The {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} security framework is built around an authorization server that implements the OAuth protocol, and exposes the OAuth endpoints with which the client interacts. {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} implements custom security logic and advanced security features on top of the authorization server. By default, {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} functions also as the OAuth authorization server. However, you can configure IBM® WebSphere® DataPower® (DataPower) to act as the authorization server, and interact with {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. This design provides you with enhanced flexibility in setting up production topologies, for example, deploying the DataPower authorization server in the DMZ.

> **Note:** The basic building blocks of the security framework (security checks and challenge handlers) are unaffected by this mode. The behavior of the building blocks is the same regardless of whether the authorization server is {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} or DataPower.

The integration of the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} security framework with DataPower as the authorization server is achieved by using the provided {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} DataPower pattern file, dp-external-az-pattern.zip. You can get this file from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}: from the console's **Dashboard**, select **Download Center**, and then select the **Tools** tab. In the **{{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} External Authorization Server Pattern** section of the Tools tab, select **Download** and save the pattern to your preferred location.

To use DataPower as the authorization server, deploy the provided pattern to your DataPower appliance and configure {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to interact with DataPower as the authorization server, as outlined in the following procedure.

> Note: When using DataPower as the authorization server, configure client applications to connect to the DataPower appliance instead of connecting directly to {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. For example, in an iOS application, set the **wlServerHost** and **wlServerPort** properties in **mfpclient.plist** to the host IP address and port of the DataPower appliance. If you are using a self-signed SSL certificate for DataPower, you also need to import this certificate into the client application.

## Setup
### Preliminary steps
1. Create a key pair for the DataPower SSL certificate with a public key named **azserver-sscert.pem** and a private key named **azserver-privkey.pem**. The exact procedure for creating the SSL key pair for production depends on your certificate authority, and therefore cannot be documented here. However, during development you can run the following commands from a command-line terminal to create a self-signed certificate:

    ```bash
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout azserver-privkey.pem -out azserver-sscert.pem -days 365 -nodes
    ```
    
2. Create a key to be used by DataPower for encryption of OAuth tokens. The key is a hexadecimal string whose size is at least 32 bytes. Save the key to a file named key. Following is a sample key: **0xabcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234**.

3. Create a file that is named **secret**. This secret is used by DataPower to authenticate itself with {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. The secret file is a text file that contains a JSON object with a **secret** entry whose string value defines the secret. The following sample defines a "12345" secret:

    ```xml
    {"secret":"12345"}
    ```

### Deploying the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} DataPower pattern
In the WebGUI of your DataPower appliance,

1. Create a new DataPower domain.
2. Switch to the new domain, and upload the file that contains the public and private SSL-certification keys that you created in preliminary Step 1 (**azserver-sscert.pem** and **azserver-privkey.pem**) to the **cert:///** directory.
3. Upload the **key** file that you created in preliminary Step 2 to the same directory.
4. Upload the **secret** file that you created in preliminary Step 3 to the **local:///** directory.
5. Select **Blueprint Console** in the WebGUI navigation sidebar. Then select the **Patterns** tab, and import the pattern by selecting the graphical import button (next to the **New Pattern** button).
6. Select the pattern archive file (**dp-external-az-pattern.zip**), and wait for the import to complete.
7. Select **Deploy**, and provide the input in the four required fields: enter a name for the service, the URL of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}, and the DataPower IP address and port that you want the authorization server to listen to.
8. After the pattern is deployed, select the **Services** tab to ensure that the new authorization service started successfully.

### Configuring {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to work with DataPower
1. Add the following JNDI entries to the application-server configuration file of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} (**server.xml**). Replace the **your_secret** placeholder with the secret that you defined in your **secret** file in preliminary Step 3 (for example, "12345"). This secret is used for authenticating the DataPower appliance.

    ```xml
    <jndiEntry jndiName="mfp/mfp.authorization.server" value="external"/>
    <jndiEntry jndiName="mfp.external.authorization.server.secret" value="your_secret"/>
    <jndiEntry jndiName="mfp.external.authorization.server.introspection.url"
        value=“https://<DataPower host address>:8443/az/v1/introspection"/>
    ```
    
2. Import the DataPower public-key certificate file (**azserver-sscert.pem**) into the WebSphere Application Server Liberty keystore of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to allow the server to connect over SSL. You can run the following commands to import the key into the keystore:

    ```bash
    openssl x509 -outform der -in azserver-sscert.pem -out azserver-sscert.der
    keytool -import -keystore key.jks -file azserver-sscert.der
    ```
    
    The first command takes the certificate and converts it into DER format. The second command uses the Java **keytool** utility to import the certificate into the WebSphere Application Server Liberty keystore of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.
    
3. Create a special empty scope-element mapping to be used by DataPower. You need to create this mapping in every application that is registered with {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. To create a mapping, select the **Security** tab on the application page, and then select **Create New** under **Security-Elements Mapping**. In the Add New Scope-Element Mapping dialog window, create a new mapping (for example, a mapping named none), and leave the **Scope Element** field empty (do not map the scope to any security check). Select Add to complete the mapping.

### Protecting resources with an empty scope
To protect a resource by requiring an access token, you need to explicitly set the resource's protecting scope to the empty scope element that you mapped in Step 3 of the server-configuration procedure. For information about how to protect your resources with a scope, see [OAuth resource protection](../../../foundation/8.0/authentication-and-security#protecting-resources). On the client side, call WLResourceRequest with a scope parameter that is set to the same empty scope element.

Commit message:

113588: DP as AZ server pattern - remove scope requirements and add restrictions
Task 113588: Edit the DataPower as AZ server integration doc to remove the special scope requirements (no longer required after the V8.0.0 default-scope changes), and add pattern restrictions:
- No support for OPTIONS HTTP requests
- Maximum response size = 16 MB

tutorials/en/product-integration/8.0/datapower-as-authorization-server.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Configuring IBM WebSphere DataPower as the OAuth authorization server
breadcrumb_title: DataPower
weight: 2
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
The {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} security framework is built around an authorization server that implements the OAuth protocol, and exposes the OAuth endpoints with which the client interacts. {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} implements custom security logic and advanced security features on top of the authorization server. By default, {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} functions also as the OAuth authorization server. However, you can configure IBM® WebSphere® DataPower® (DataPower) to act as the authorization server, and interact with {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. This design provides you with enhanced flexibility in setting up production topologies, for example, deploying the DataPower authorization server in the DMZ.

> **Note:** The basic building blocks of the security framework (security checks and challenge handlers) are unaffected by this mode. The behavior of the building blocks is the same regardless of whether the authorization server is {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} or DataPower.

The integration of the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} security framework with DataPower as the authorization server is achieved by using the provided {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} DataPower pattern file, dp-external-az-pattern.zip. You can get this file from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}: from the console's **Dashboard**, select **Download Center**, and then select the **Tools** tab. In the **{{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} External Authorization Server Pattern** section of the Tools tab, select **Download** and save the pattern to your preferred location.

To use DataPower as the authorization server, deploy the provided pattern to your DataPower appliance and configure {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to interact with DataPower as the authorization server, as outlined in the following procedure.

> Note: When using DataPower as the authorization server, configure client applications to connect to the DataPower appliance instead of connecting directly to {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. For example, in an iOS application, set the **wlServerHost** and **wlServerPort** properties in **mfpclient.plist** to the host IP address and port of the DataPower appliance. If you are using a self-signed SSL certificate for DataPower, you also need to import this certificate into the client application.

## Pattern restrictions
{: #pattern-restrictions }

The DataPower pattern has the following restrictions:

-  The pattern does not support `OPTIONS` HTTP requests.
-  The maximum response size is 16 MB.

## Setup
### Preliminary steps
1. Create a key pair for the DataPower SSL certificate with a public key named **azserver-sscert.pem** and a private key named **azserver-privkey.pem**. The exact procedure for creating the SSL key pair for production depends on your certificate authority, and therefore cannot be documented here. However, during development you can run the following commands from a command-line terminal to create a self-signed certificate:

    ```bash
    openssl req -x509 -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout azserver-privkey.pem -out azserver-sscert.pem -days 365 -nodes
    ```
    
2. Create a key to be used by DataPower for encryption of OAuth tokens. The key is a hexadecimal string whose size is at least 32 bytes. Save the key to a file named key. Following is a sample key: **0xabcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234**.

3. Create a file that is named **secret**. This secret is used by DataPower to authenticate itself with {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. The secret file is a text file that contains a JSON object with a **secret** entry whose string value defines the secret. The following sample defines a "12345" secret:

    ```xml
    {"secret":"12345"}
    ```

### Deploying the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} DataPower pattern
In the WebGUI of your DataPower appliance,

1. Create a new DataPower domain.
2. Switch to the new domain, and upload the file that contains the public and private SSL-certification keys that you created in preliminary Step 1 (**azserver-sscert.pem** and **azserver-privkey.pem**) to the **cert:///** directory.
3. Upload the **key** file that you created in preliminary Step 2 to the same directory.
4. Upload the **secret** file that you created in preliminary Step 3 to the **local:///** directory.
5. Select **Blueprint Console** in the WebGUI navigation sidebar. Then select the **Patterns** tab, and import the pattern by selecting the graphical import button (next to the **New Pattern** button).
6. Select the pattern archive file (**dp-external-az-pattern.zip**), and wait for the import to complete.
7. Select **Deploy**, and provide the input in the four required fields: enter a name for the service, the URL of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}, and the DataPower IP address and port that you want the authorization server to listen to.
8. After the pattern is deployed, select the **Services** tab to ensure that the new authorization service started successfully.

### Configuring {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to work with DataPower
1. Add the following JNDI entries to the application-server configuration file of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} (**server.xml**). Replace the **your_secret** placeholder with the secret that you defined in your **secret** file in preliminary Step 3 (for example, "12345"). This secret is used for authenticating the DataPower appliance.

    ```xml
    <jndiEntry jndiName="mfp/mfp.authorization.server" value="external"/>
    <jndiEntry jndiName="mfp.external.authorization.server.secret" value="your_secret"/>
    <jndiEntry jndiName="mfp.external.authorization.server.introspection.url"
        value=“https://<DataPower host address>:8443/az/v1/introspection"/>
    ```
    
2. Import the DataPower public-key certificate file (**azserver-sscert.pem**) into the WebSphere Application Server Liberty keystore of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to allow the server to connect over SSL. You can run the following commands to import the key into the keystore:

    ```bash
    openssl x509 -outform der -in azserver-sscert.pem -out azserver-sscert.der
    keytool -import -keystore key.jks -file azserver-sscert.der
    ```
    
    The first command takes the certificate and converts it into DER format. The second command uses the Java **keytool** utility to import the certificate into the WebSphere Application Server Liberty keystore of your {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.
