tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/application-development/sdk/android/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Adding the MobileFirst Foundation SDK to Android Applications
breadcrumb_title: Android
relevantTo: [android]
weight: 3
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
The {{ site.data.keys.product_full }} SDK consists of a collection of dependencies that are available through [Maven Central](http://search.maven.org/), and which you can add to your Android Studio project. The dependencies correspond to core functions and other functions:

* **IBMMobileFirstPlatformFoundation** - Implements client-to-server connectivity, handles authentication and security aspects, resource requests, and other required core functions.
* **IBMMobileFirstPlatformFoundationJSONStore** - Contains the JSONStore framework. For more information, review the [JSONStore for Andoid tutorial](../../jsonstore/android/).
* **IBMMobileFirstPlatformFoundationPush** - Contains the Push Notifications framework. For more information, review the [Notifications tutorials](../../../notifications/).

In this tutorial, you learn how to add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK by using Gradle to a new or existing Android application. You also learn how to configure the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to recognize the application, and to find information about the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} configuration files that are added to the project.

**Prerequisites:**

- Android Studio and {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }} installed on the developer workstation.  
- A local or remote instance of {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is running.
- Read the [Setting up your {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} development environment](../../../installation-configuration/development/mobilefirst) and [Setting up your Android development environment](../../../installation-configuration/development/android) tutorials.

#### Jump to:

- [Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK](#adding-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk)
- [Manually Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK](#manually-adding-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk)
- [Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK](#updating-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk)
- [Generated {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK artifacts](#generated-mobilefirst-native-sdk-artifacts)
- [Support for Javadoc and Android Service](#support-for-javadoc-and-android-service)
- [Tutorials to follow next](#tutorials-to-follow-next)

## Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK
Follow the instructions below to add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK to a new or existing Android Studio project, and to register the application to the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} instance.

Before you start, make sure that {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is running.  
If you use a locally installed server: From a **Command-line** window, navigate to the server's folder and run the command `./run.sh` on a Mac or Linux OS, or `run.cmd` on Windows.

### Creating an Android application
Create an Android Studio project or use an existing one.  

### Adding the SDK

1. In **Android → Gradle Scripts**, select the **build.gradle (Module: app)** file.

2. Add the following lines after `apply plugin: 'com.android.application'`:

   ```xml
   repositories{
        jcenter()
   }
   ```

3. Add the following line inside the `android` section:

   ```xml
   packagingOptions {
        pickFirst 'META-INF/ASL2.0'
        pickFirst 'META-INF/LICENSE'
        pickFirst 'META-INF/NOTICE'
   }
   ```

4. Add the following lines inside the `dependencies` section:

   ```xml
   compile group: 'com.ibm.mobile.foundation',
   name: 'ibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation',
   version: '8.0.+',
   ext: 'aar',
   transitive: true
   ```

   Or on a single line:

   ```xml
   compile 'com.ibm.mobile.foundation:ibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation:8.0.+'
   ```

5. In **Android → app → manifests**, open the `AndroidManifest.xml` file. Add the following permissions above the **application** element:

   ```xml
   <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
   <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE"/>
   ```
   
6. Add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} UI activity next to the existing **activity** element:

   ```xml
   <activity android:name="com.worklight.wlclient.ui.UIActivity" />
   ```

> If a Gradle Sync request appears, accept it.

### Manually adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK
You can also manually add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} SDK:
  
<div class="panel-group accordion" id="adding-the-sdk" role="tablist" aria-multiselectable="false">
    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <div class="panel-heading" role="tab" id="android-sdk">
            <h4 class="panel-title">
                <a class="preventScroll" role="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#android-sdk" data-target="#collapse-android-sdk" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapse-android-sdk"><b>Click for instructions</b></a>
            </h4>
        </div>

        <div id="collapse-android-sdk" class="panel-collapse collapse" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="android-sdk">
            <div class="panel-body">
                <p>To manually add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} SDK, first download the SDK .zip file from the <b>{{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} → Download Center → SDKs</b> tab. After completing the above steps, follow the below as well.</p>
            
                <ul>
                    <li>Extract the downloaded .zip file and place the relevant aar files to the <b>app\libs</b> folder.</li>
                    <li>Add the following to the <b>dependencies</b> closure:
{% highlight xml %}
compile(name:'ibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation', ext:'aar')
{% endhighlight %}
                    </li>
                    <li>Add the following to the <b>repositories</b> closure:
{% highlight xml %}
repositories {
    flatDir {
        dirs 'libs'
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
                    </li>
                </ul> 
            
                <br/>
                <a class="preventScroll" role="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#android-sdk" data-target="#collapse-android-sdk" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapse-android-sdk"><b>Close section</b></a>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>



### Registering the application
1. Open a **Command-line** window and navigate to the root of the Android Studio project.  

2. Run the command:

    ```bash
    mfpdev app register
    ```
    - If a remote server is used, [use the command `mfpdev server add`](../../using-mobilefirst-cli-to-manage-mobilefirst-artifacts/#add-a-new-server-instance) to add it.

The `mfpdev app register` CLI command first connects to the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to register the application, followed by generating the **mfpclient.properties** file in the **[project root]/app/src/main/assets/** folder of the Android Studio project, and to add to it the metadata that identifies the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

> <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-info-sign" aria-hidden="true"></span> **Tip:** You can also register applications from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}:    
>
> 1. Load the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}.  
> 2. Click the **New** button next to **Applications** to register a new application and follow the on-screen instructions.  
> 3. After the application is registered, navigate to the application's **Configuration Files** tab and copy or download the **mfpclient.properties** file. Follow the onscreen instructions to add the file to your project.

### Creating a WLClient instance
Before using any {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} APIs, create a `WLClient` instance:

```java
WLClient.createInstance(this);
```

**Note:** Creating a `WLClient` instance should happen only once in the entire application lifecycle. It is recommended to use the Android Application class to do it.

## Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK
To update the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK with the latest release, find the release version number and update the `version` property accordingly in the **build.gradle** file.  
See step 4 above.

SDK releases can be found in the SDK's [JCenter repository](https://bintray.com/bintray/jcenter/com.ibm.mobile.foundation%3Aibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation/view#).

## Generated {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK artifacts

### mfpclient.properties
Located in the **./app/src/main/assets/** folder of the Android Studio project, this file defines the client-side properties used for registering your Android app on the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

| Property            | Description                                                         | Example values |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| wlServerProtocol    | The communication protocol with the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.             | http or https  |
| wlServerHost        | The host name of the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.                            | 192.168.1.63   |
| wlServerPort        | The port of the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.                                 | 9080           |
| wlServerContext     | The context root path of the application on the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. | /mfp/          |
| languagePreferences | Sets the default language for client sdk system messages.           | en             |

## Support for Javadoc and Android Service
For information about support for Javadoc and Android Service see the [Additional Information](additional-information) page.

## Tutorials to follow next
With the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK now integrated, you can now:

- Review the [Using the {{ site.data.keys.product }} SDK tutorials](../)
- Review the [Adapters development tutorials](../../../adapters/)
- Review the [Authentication and security tutorials](../../../authentication-and-security/)
- Review the [Notifications tutorials](../../../notifications/)
- Review [All Tutorials](../../../all-tutorials)

Commit message:

Use custom IDs in the application development cat
Signed-off-by: Idan Adar <iadar@il.ibm.com>

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/application-development/sdk/android/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Adding the MobileFirst Foundation SDK to Android Applications
breadcrumb_title: Android
relevantTo: [android]
weight: 3
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{: #overview }
The {{ site.data.keys.product_full }} SDK consists of a collection of dependencies that are available through [Maven Central](http://search.maven.org/), and which you can add to your Android Studio project. The dependencies correspond to core functions and other functions:

* **IBMMobileFirstPlatformFoundation** - Implements client-to-server connectivity, handles authentication and security aspects, resource requests, and other required core functions.
* **IBMMobileFirstPlatformFoundationJSONStore** - Contains the JSONStore framework. For more information, review the [JSONStore for Andoid tutorial](../../jsonstore/android/).
* **IBMMobileFirstPlatformFoundationPush** - Contains the Push Notifications framework. For more information, review the [Notifications tutorials](../../../notifications/).

In this tutorial, you learn how to add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK by using Gradle to a new or existing Android application. You also learn how to configure the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to recognize the application, and to find information about the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} configuration files that are added to the project.

**Prerequisites:**

- Android Studio and {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }} installed on the developer workstation.  
- A local or remote instance of {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is running.
- Read the [Setting up your {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} development environment](../../../installation-configuration/development/mobilefirst) and [Setting up your Android development environment](../../../installation-configuration/development/android) tutorials.

#### Jump to:
{: #jump-to }
- [Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK](#adding-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk)
- [Manually Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK](#manually-adding-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk)
- [Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK](#updating-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk)
- [Generated {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK artifacts](#generated-mobilefirst-native-sdk-artifacts)
- [Support for Javadoc and Android Service](#support-for-javadoc-and-android-service)
- [Tutorials to follow next](#tutorials-to-follow-next)

## Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK
{: #adding-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk }
Follow the instructions below to add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK to a new or existing Android Studio project, and to register the application to the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} instance.

Before you start, make sure that {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is running.  
If you use a locally installed server: From a **Command-line** window, navigate to the server's folder and run the command `./run.sh` on a Mac or Linux OS, or `run.cmd` on Windows.

### Creating an Android application
{: #creating-an-android-application }
Create an Android Studio project or use an existing one.  

### Adding the SDK
{: #adding-the-sdk }
1. In **Android → Gradle Scripts**, select the **build.gradle (Module: app)** file.

2. Add the following lines after `apply plugin: 'com.android.application'`:

   ```xml
   repositories{
        jcenter()
   }
   ```

3. Add the following line inside the `android` section:

   ```xml
   packagingOptions {
        pickFirst 'META-INF/ASL2.0'
        pickFirst 'META-INF/LICENSE'
        pickFirst 'META-INF/NOTICE'
   }
   ```

4. Add the following lines inside the `dependencies` section:

   ```xml
   compile group: 'com.ibm.mobile.foundation',
   name: 'ibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation',
   version: '8.0.+',
   ext: 'aar',
   transitive: true
   ```

   Or on a single line:

   ```xml
   compile 'com.ibm.mobile.foundation:ibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation:8.0.+'
   ```

5. In **Android → app → manifests**, open the `AndroidManifest.xml` file. Add the following permissions above the **application** element:

   ```xml
   <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
   <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_WIFI_STATE"/>
   ```
   
6. Add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} UI activity next to the existing **activity** element:

   ```xml
   <activity android:name="com.worklight.wlclient.ui.UIActivity" />
   ```

> If a Gradle Sync request appears, accept it.

### Manually adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK
{: #manually-adding-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk }
You can also manually add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} SDK:
  
<div class="panel-group accordion" id="adding-the-sdk" role="tablist" aria-multiselectable="false">
    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <div class="panel-heading" role="tab" id="android-sdk">
            <h4 class="panel-title">
                <a class="preventScroll" role="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#android-sdk" data-target="#collapse-android-sdk" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapse-android-sdk"><b>Click for instructions</b></a>
            </h4>
        </div>

        <div id="collapse-android-sdk" class="panel-collapse collapse" role="tabpanel" aria-labelledby="android-sdk">
            <div class="panel-body">
                <p>To manually add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} SDK, first download the SDK .zip file from the <b>{{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} → Download Center → SDKs</b> tab. After completing the above steps, follow the below as well.</p>
            
                <ul>
                    <li>Extract the downloaded .zip file and place the relevant aar files to the <b>app\libs</b> folder.</li>
                    <li>Add the following to the <b>dependencies</b> closure:
{% highlight xml %}
compile(name:'ibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation', ext:'aar')
{% endhighlight %}
                    </li>
                    <li>Add the following to the <b>repositories</b> closure:
{% highlight xml %}
repositories {
    flatDir {
        dirs 'libs'
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
                    </li>
                </ul> 
            
                <br/>
                <a class="preventScroll" role="button" data-toggle="collapse" data-parent="#android-sdk" data-target="#collapse-android-sdk" aria-expanded="false" aria-controls="collapse-android-sdk"><b>Close section</b></a>
            </div>
        </div>
    </div>
</div>



### Registering the application
{: #registering-the-application }
1. Open a **Command-line** window and navigate to the root of the Android Studio project.  

2. Run the command:

    ```bash
    mfpdev app register
    ```
    - If a remote server is used, [use the command `mfpdev server add`](../../using-mobilefirst-cli-to-manage-mobilefirst-artifacts/#add-a-new-server-instance) to add it.

The `mfpdev app register` CLI command first connects to the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} to register the application, followed by generating the **mfpclient.properties** file in the **[project root]/app/src/main/assets/** folder of the Android Studio project, and to add to it the metadata that identifies the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

> <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-info-sign" aria-hidden="true"></span> **Tip:** You can also register applications from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}:    
>
> 1. Load the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}.  
> 2. Click the **New** button next to **Applications** to register a new application and follow the on-screen instructions.  
> 3. After the application is registered, navigate to the application's **Configuration Files** tab and copy or download the **mfpclient.properties** file. Follow the onscreen instructions to add the file to your project.

### Creating a WLClient instance
{: #creating-a-wlclient-instance }
Before using any {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} APIs, create a `WLClient` instance:

```java
WLClient.createInstance(this);
```

**Note:** Creating a `WLClient` instance should happen only once in the entire application lifecycle. It is recommended to use the Android Application class to do it.

## Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK
{: #updating-the-mobilefirst-native-sdk }
To update the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK with the latest release, find the release version number and update the `version` property accordingly in the **build.gradle** file.  
See step 4 above.

SDK releases can be found in the SDK's [JCenter repository](https://bintray.com/bintray/jcenter/com.ibm.mobile.foundation%3Aibmmobilefirstplatformfoundation/view#).

## Generated {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK artifacts
{: #generated-mobilefirst-native-sdk-artifacts }
### mfpclient.properties
{: #mfpclient.properties }
Located in the **./app/src/main/assets/** folder of the Android Studio project, this file defines the client-side properties used for registering your Android app on the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

| Property            | Description                                                         | Example values |
|---------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------|
| wlServerProtocol    | The communication protocol with the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.             | http or https  |
| wlServerHost        | The host name of the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.                            | 192.168.1.63   |
| wlServerPort        | The port of the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.                                 | 9080           |
| wlServerContext     | The context root path of the application on the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}. | /mfp/          |
| languagePreferences | Sets the default language for client sdk system messages.           | en             |

## Support for Javadoc and Android Service
{: #support-for-javadoc-and-android-service }
For information about support for Javadoc and Android Service see the [Additional Information](additional-information) page.

## Tutorials to follow next
{: #tutorials-to-follow-next }
With the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} Native SDK now integrated, you can now:

- Review the [Using the {{ site.data.keys.product }} SDK tutorials](../)
- Review the [Adapters development tutorials](../../../adapters/)
- Review the [Authentication and security tutorials](../../../authentication-and-security/)
- Review the [Notifications tutorials](../../../notifications/)
- Review [All Tutorials](../../../all-tutorials)
