tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/installation-configuration/production/update/appserver-update/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Updating the MobileFirst server
breadcrumb_title: Updating the MobileFirst server
weight: 2
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{: #overview }
IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation provides several components that you might have installed.

Here is a description of their dependencies to update them:

### MobileFirst Server Administration Service, MobileFirst Operations Console, and MobileFirst runtime environment
{: #server-console }

These three components compose as MobileFirst Server. They must be updated together.

### Application Center
{: #appenter}

The installation of this component is optional. This component is independent of the other components. It can be run at a different interim fix level than the others if needed.

### MobileFirst Operational Analytics
{: #analytics}

The installation of this component is optional. The MobileFirst components send data to MobileFirst Operational Analytics via a REST API. It is preferable to run MobileFirst Operational Analytics with the other components of MobileFirst Server of the same interim fix level.


## Updating MobileFirst Server Administration Service, MobileFirst Operations Console, and MobileFirst runtime environment
{: #updating-server}

You can update these components in two ways:
* With Server Configuration Tool
* With Ant tasks

The updating procedure depends on the method you used at the initial installation.

### Applying a fix pack by using the Server Configuration Tool
{: #applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-server-configuration-tool }
If {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is installed with the configuration tool and the configuration file is kept, you can apply a fix pack or an interim fix by reusing the configuration file.

1. Start the Server Configuration Tool.
    * On Linux, from application shortcuts **Applications → IBM MobileFirst Platform Server → Server Configuration Tool**.
    * On Windows, click **Start → Programs → IBM MobileFirst Platform Server → Server Configuration Tool**.
    * On macOS, open a shell console. Go to **mfp\_server\_install_dir/shortcuts** and type **./configuration-tool.sh**.
    * The **mfp\_server\_install\_dir** directory is where you installed {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

2. Click **Configurations → Replace the deployed WAR files** and select an existing configuration to apply the fix pack or an interim fix.


### Applying a fix pack by using the Ant files
{: #applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-ant-files }

#### Updating with the sample Ant file
{: #updating-with-the-sample-ant-file }
If you use the sample Ant files that are provided in the **mfp\_install\_dir/MobileFirstServer/configuration-samples** directory to install {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}, you can reuse a copy of this Ant file to apply a fix pack. For password values, you can enter 12 stars (\*) instead of the actual value, to be prompted interactively when the Ant file is run.

1. Verify the value of the **mfp.server.install.dir** property in the Ant file. It must point to the directory that contains the product with the fix pack applied. This value is used to take the updated {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} WAR files.
2. Run the command: `mfp_install_dir/shortcuts/ant -f your_ant_file update`

#### Updating with own Ant file
{: #updating-with-own-ant-file }
If you use your own Ant file, make sure that for each installation task (**installmobilefirstadmin**, **installmobilefirstruntime**, and **installmobilefirstpush**), you have a corresponding update task in your Ant file with the same parameters. The corresponding update tasks are **updatemobilefirstadmin**, **updatemobilefirstruntime**, and **updatemobilefirstpush**.

1. Verify the class path of the **taskdef** element for the **mfp-ant-deployer.jar** file. It must point to the **mfp-ant-deployer.jar** file in an {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} installation that the fix pack is applied. By default, the updated {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} WAR files are taken from the location of **mfp-ant-deployer.jar**.
2. Run the update tasks (**updatemobilefirstadmin**, **updatemobilefirstruntime**, and **updatemobilefirstpush**) of your Ant file.

Commit message:

#wi115093 -  added a note on rollback of ifix

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/installation-configuration/production/update/appserver-update/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Updating the MobileFirst server
breadcrumb_title: Updating the MobileFirst server
weight: 2
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{: #overview }
IBM MobileFirst Platform Foundation provides several components that you might have installed.

Here is a description of their dependencies to update them:

### MobileFirst Server Administration Service, MobileFirst Operations Console, and MobileFirst runtime environment
{: #server-console }

These three components compose as MobileFirst Server. They must be updated together.

### Application Center
{: #appenter}

The installation of this component is optional. This component is independent of the other components. It can be run at a different interim fix level than the others if needed.

### MobileFirst Operational Analytics
{: #analytics}

The installation of this component is optional. The MobileFirst components send data to MobileFirst Operational Analytics via a REST API. It is preferable to run MobileFirst Operational Analytics with the other components of MobileFirst Server of the same interim fix level.


## Updating MobileFirst Server Administration Service, MobileFirst Operations Console, and MobileFirst runtime environment
{: #updating-server}

You can update these components in two ways:
* With Server Configuration Tool
* With Ant tasks

The updating procedure depends on the method you used at the initial installation.

> **Note:** Installation Manager(IM) does not support rolling back of an update/iFix. However, rollback is possible using Ant or Server Configuration Tool, if you have the old war files.

### Applying a fix pack by using the Server Configuration Tool
{: #applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-server-configuration-tool }
If {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is installed with the configuration tool and the configuration file is kept, you can apply a fix pack or an interim fix by reusing the configuration file.

1. Start the Server Configuration Tool.
    * On Linux, from application shortcuts **Applications → IBM MobileFirst Platform Server → Server Configuration Tool**.
    * On Windows, click **Start → Programs → IBM MobileFirst Platform Server → Server Configuration Tool**.
    * On macOS, open a shell console. Go to **mfp\_server\_install_dir/shortcuts** and type **./configuration-tool.sh**.
    * The **mfp\_server\_install\_dir** directory is where you installed {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

2. Click **Configurations → Replace the deployed WAR files** and select an existing configuration to apply the fix pack or an interim fix.


### Applying a fix pack by using the Ant files
{: #applying-a-fix-pack-by-using-the-ant-files }

#### Updating with the sample Ant file
{: #updating-with-the-sample-ant-file }
If you use the sample Ant files that are provided in the **mfp\_install\_dir/MobileFirstServer/configuration-samples** directory to install {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}, you can reuse a copy of this Ant file to apply a fix pack. For password values, you can enter 12 stars (\*) instead of the actual value, to be prompted interactively when the Ant file is run.

1. Verify the value of the **mfp.server.install.dir** property in the Ant file. It must point to the directory that contains the product with the fix pack applied. This value is used to take the updated {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} WAR files.
2. Run the command: `mfp_install_dir/shortcuts/ant -f your_ant_file update`

#### Updating with own Ant file
{: #updating-with-own-ant-file }
If you use your own Ant file, make sure that for each installation task (**installmobilefirstadmin**, **installmobilefirstruntime**, and **installmobilefirstpush**), you have a corresponding update task in your Ant file with the same parameters. The corresponding update tasks are **updatemobilefirstadmin**, **updatemobilefirstruntime**, and **updatemobilefirstpush**.

1. Verify the class path of the **taskdef** element for the **mfp-ant-deployer.jar** file. It must point to the **mfp-ant-deployer.jar** file in an {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} installation that the fix pack is applied. By default, the updated {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} WAR files are taken from the location of **mfp-ant-deployer.jar**.
2. Run the update tasks (**updatemobilefirstadmin**, **updatemobilefirstruntime**, and **updatemobilefirstpush**) of your Ant file.
