tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/installation-configuration/development/xamarin/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Setting up the Xamarin development environment
breadcrumb_title: Xamarin
relevantTo: [xamarin]
weight: 3
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
This tutorial explains the steps a developer needs to follow to be able to develop and test native C# Xamarin applications for Android or iOS devices. These steps include installing Xamarin Studio.

**Prerequisite:** As you setup your Xamarin development environment, make sure to also read the [Setting up the MobileFirst development environment](../../development/) tutorial.

### Development
Xamarin applications are developed using [Xamarin Studio](https://www.xamarin.com/studio) or [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/). Xamarin studio can be installed on Mac or Windows.  Alternatively, on Windows 8.1 or 10 desktops, Xamarin can be added as a plugin to Microsoft Visual Studio.   

Xamarin Studio can be downloaded at [Xamarin Studio Downloads](https://www.xamarin.com/download)

![Xamarin Studio](xamarin-studio.png)

## What's Next
Now that the MobileFirst and Xamarin development environment are set up, continue to [Quick Start](../../../quick-start/xamarin/) category to experience MobileFirst Platform, or to [All Tutorials](../../../all-tutorials) to learn specific aspects of MobileFirst Platform development.

Commit message:

DC infra: Use product keywords + minor fixes

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/installation-configuration/development/xamarin/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Setting up the Xamarin development environment
breadcrumb_title: Xamarin
relevantTo: [xamarin]
weight: 3
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
This tutorial explains the steps a developer needs to follow to be able to develop and test native C# Xamarin applications for Android or iOS devices. These steps include installing Xamarin Studio.

**Prerequisite:** As you setup your Xamarin development environment, make sure to also read the [Setting up the MobileFirst development environment](../../development/) tutorial.

### Development
Xamarin applications are developed using [Xamarin Studio](https://www.xamarin.com/studio) or [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://www.visualstudio.com/). Xamarin studio can be installed on Mac OS or Windows.  Alternatively, on Windows 8.1 or 10 desktops, Xamarin can be added as a plugin to Microsoft Visual Studio.   

Xamarin Studio can be downloaded at [Xamarin Studio Downloads](https://www.xamarin.com/download)

![Xamarin Studio](xamarin-studio.png)

## What's Next
Now that the {{ site.data.keys.product_full }} and Xamarin development environments are set up, continue to the [Quick Start](../../../quick-start/xamarin/) category to experience {{ site.data.keys.product }}, or to [All Tutorials](../../../all-tutorials) to learn specific aspects of {{ site.data.keys.product }} development.
