---
title: iOS 2020 Requirements - Is your App Ready ? 
date: 2020-03-31
tags:
- MobileFirst_Platform
- MobileFirst_Foundation
- iOS
version:
- 8.0
- 7.1
author:
  name: Srihari Kulkarni
---
<style>
.audio-background {
  background-image: linear-gradient(to right, rgba(255,255,255,0), #ffff99);
;
}
</style>
<script>
$('#audioMFWebView').on('ended', function() {
        manageImageObjectsLevel();
}).get(0).play();
</script>

<div class="container audio-background">
  
  <audio id="audioMFWebView" controls>
  <source src="{{site.baseurl}}/assets/blog/2020-01-31-ios-ready-for-2020.mp3" type="audio/mpeg">
  Your browser does not support the audio tag.
  </audio>

</div>
<br/>

Over the course of the last several months, Apple has made quite a few announcements that can affect your app. In this post, I'll list the ones that are most relevant to keep you Mobile Foundation app current and what actions you must take. Without any further ado, here is the list. 

###Usage of UIWebView 
Even after deprecating UIWebView, iOS devices have been tolerant of apps using UIWebView until now. iOS 13 was no different. However, with this [announcement](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=12232019b), Apple made it very clear that the App Store will stop accepting new apps that use UIWebView APIs starting April 2020 and updates to existing apps starting December 2020. 

Read this [post](https://mobilefirstplatform.ibmcloud.com/blog/2020/01/27/Removal-of-UIWebview/) for extensive details on how to deal with this in your MobileFirst app. TL;DR - Update your MobileFirst v8 SDKs for native iOS or Cordova/Ionic apps to the latest SDK. If you're on MobileFirst v7.1 hybrid platform, it is time to migrate to v8 as the new requirements are not supported in MobileFirst v7.1 

###Push Notifications
If you've been using MobileFirst Platform for sending out push notifications, more likely than not, you're using the certificate based binary protocol for APNS. However, this [announcement from Apple](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=11042019a), brings down the curtains on the legacy binary protocol starting November 2020 and instead touts the HTTP/2 based protocol as its replacement. 
As always, MobileFirst Platform has your back and all you have to do is read [this post](https://mobilefirstplatform.ibmcloud.com/blog/2018/12/24/HTTP2-proxy-support/) to fix your app.


###Use of Adaptive User Interfaces
Yet another requirement for apps to make it to the App Store is that all apps must make use of an XCode Storyboard for the app's launch screen and all apps must have adaptive user interfaces to support any display size. Head over to this [Apple Developer Blog post](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=01132020b) for the original announcement. 
Now, what does this mean for your MobileFirst app ? Well, native apps are not affected by the MobileFirst SDK. However, if you're using MobileFirst v7.1 Hybrid apps, then you will have to upgrade your MobileFirst Studio to version 7.1.0.0-IF202003301225 or later. As always, don't forget to rebuild your environment after upgrading. 


###Other App Store requirements 
Among other App Store requirements, all apps submitted to the App Store starting 10 April, 2020 must have to be built using the iOS 13 or a later SDK. You can read about this announcement [here](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=03042020b).

Further updates to App Store guidelines specific to HTML5 apps (MobileFirst Hybrid or Cordova apps), have been in place since 3 March, 2020. Read about them [here](https://developer.apple.com/news/?id=01212020a).  



