tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/application-development/sdk/web/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Adding the MobileFirst Foundation SDK to Web Applications
breadcrumb_title: Web
relevantTo: [javascript]
weight: 6
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{: #overview }
You can develop mobile or Desktop {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web applications by using your preferred development environment and tools.  
In this tutorial, you learn how to add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK to your web applicaiton, as well as how to register the web application with the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}

The {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK is provided as a set of JavaScript files, [and is available at NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ibm-mfp-web-sdk).  
The SDK includes the following files:

- **ibmmfpf.js** - The core of the SDK.
- **ibmmfpfanalytics.js** - Provides support for {{ site.data.keys.mf_analytics }}.

**Prerequisite:**
To run NPM commands, [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) is required.

#### SDK Limitations
{: #sdk-limitations }
The numbers in the table specify the first browser version that are fully supported.

|      Browser      | Chrome | Safari* | Internet Explorer | Firefox | Android Browser |
|:-----------------:|:------:|:-------:|:-----------------:|:-------:|:---------------:|
| Supported Version |   43+  |    8+   |        10+        |   38+   |   Android 4.3+  |

(*) Private browsing mode will work only with Single Page Applications. Other applications may have unexpected behavior.

#### Jump to:
{: #jump-to }
- [Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK](#adding-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk)
- [Initializing the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK](#initializing-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk)
- [Registering the web application](#registering-the-web-application)
- [Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK](#updating-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk)
- [Same Origin Policy](#same-origin-policy)
- [Secure Origins Policy](#secure-origins-policy)
- [Tutorials to follow next](#tutorials-to-follow-next)

## Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK
{: #adding-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk }
To add the SDK to new or existing web applications, first download it to your workstation and then add it to your web application.

### Downloading the SDK
{: #downloading-the-sdk }
1. From a **command-line** window, navigate to your web application's root folder.
2. Run the command: `npm install ibm-mfp-web-sdk`.

This command creates the following directory structure:

![SDK folder contents](sdk-folder.png)

### Adding the SDK
{: #adding-the-sdk }
To add the {{ site.data.keys.product }} Web SDK, reference it in a standard fashion in the web application.  
The SDK also [supports AMD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchronous_module_definition), so that you can use Module Loaders such as [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/) to load the SDK.

#### Standard
Reference the **ibmmfpf.js** file in the `HEAD` element.  

```html
<head>
    ...
    ...
    <script type="text/javascript" src="node_modules/ibm-mfp-web-sdk/ibmmfpf.js"></script>
</head>
```

#### Using RequireJS

**HTML**  

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="node_modules/requirejs/require.js" data-main="index"></script>
```

**JavaScript**

```javascript
require.config({
	'paths': {
		'mfp': 'node_modules/ibm-mfp-web-sdk/ibmmfpf'
	}
});

require(['mfp'], function(WL) {
    // application logic.
});
```

> <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-exclamation-sign" aria-hidden="true"></span> **Important:** If adding Analytics support, place the **ibmmfpfanalytics.js** file reference **before** the **ibmmfpf.js** file reference.

## Initializing the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK
{: #initializing-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk }
Initialize the {{ site.data.keys.product }} web SDK by specifying the **context root** and **application ID** values in the main JavaScript file of your web application:

```javascript
var wlInitOptions = {
    mfpContextRoot : '/mfp', // "mfp" is the default context root in the {{ site.data.keys.product }}
    applicationId : 'com.sample.mywebapp' // Replace with your own value.
};

WL.Client.init(wlInitOptions).then (
    function() {
        // Application logic.
});
```

- **mfpContextRoot:** The context root used by the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.
- **applicationId:** The application package name, as defined when you [register the application](#registering-the-web-application).

### Registering the web application
{: #registering-the-web-application }
You can register applications either from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} or from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }}.

#### From {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}
{: #from-mobilefirst-operations-console }
1. Open your favorite browser and load the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} by entering the `http://localhost:9080/mfpconsole/` URL.
2. Click the **New** button next to **Applications** to create a new application.
3. Select **Web** as the platform, and provide a name and identifier.
4. Click **Register application**.

![Adding the Web platform](add-web-platform.png)

#### From {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }}
{: #from-mobilefirst-cli }
From a **command-line** window, navigate to the root folder of the web application and run the command: `mfpdev app register`.

## Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK
{: #updating-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk }
SDK releases can be found in the SDK [NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ibm-mfp-web-sdk).  
To update the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK with the latest release:

1. Navigate to the root folder of the web application.
2. Run the command: `npm update ibm-mfp-web-sdk`.

## Same-origin policy
{: #same-origin-policy }
If web resources are hosted on a different server machine than the one that {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is installed on, a [same-origin policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) violation is triggered. The same-origin-policy security model is designed to protect against potential security threats from unverified sources. According to this policy, a browser allows web resources (such as scripts) to interact only with resources that stem from the same origin (which is defined as a combination of URI scheme, host name, and port number). For more information about the same-origin policy, see The [Web Origin Concept](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454) specification, and specifically [3. Principles of the Same-Origin Policy](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454#section-3).

Web apps that use the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK must be handled in a supporting topology. For example, use a reverse proxy to internally redirect requests to the appropriate server while maintaining the same single origin.

### Alternatives
{: #alternatives }
You can meet the policy requirements by using either of the following methods:

- Serving the web application resources, for example, from the same WebSphere Application Server Liberty profile application server that is used in the {{ site.data.keys.mf_dev_kit_full }}.
- Using Node.js as a reverse proxy to redirect application requests to the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

> Learn more in [Setting up the Web development environmnt](../../../installation-configuration/development/web) tutorial

## Secure-origins policy
{: secure-origins-policy }
When you use Chrome during development, the browser might not allow an application to load if it uses both HTTP and a host that **is not** `localhost`. The cause is the secure-origins policy that is implemented and used by default in this browser.

To overcome this, you can start the Chrome browser with the following flag:

```bash
--unsafely-treat-insecure-origin-as-secure="http://replace-with-ip-address-or-host:port-number" --user-data-dir=/test-to-new-user-profile/myprofile
```

- Replace "test-to-new-user-profile/myprofile" with the location of a folder that will act as a new Chrome user profile for the flag to work.

Read more about Secure Origins [in this Chormium developer document](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/prefer-secure-origins-for-powerful-new-features).

## Tutorials to follow next
{: #tutorials-to-follow-next }
With the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK now integrated, you can now:

- Review the [Using the {{ site.data.keys.product }} SDK tutorials](../)
- Review the [Adapters development tutorials](../../../adapters/)
- Review the [Authentication and security tutorials](../../../authentication-and-security/)
- Review [All Tutorials](../../../all-tutorials)

Commit message:

Task 111165 [DOC-REV] supported web browsers & minor related changes
- ID doc review for Task 111165 client web SDK security refactoring — edit and relocate the supported web-app browsers doc.
- Fix capitaliation in the “Setting up the web development environment” title (“Web” -> “web”) [installation-configuration/development/web/index.md].
- Prereqisites as H2 section in the web-app enivronment setup and SDK-addition docs.

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/application-development/sdk/web/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Adding the MobileFirst Foundation SDK to Web Applications
breadcrumb_title: Web
relevantTo: [javascript]
weight: 6
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{: #overview }
You can develop mobile or Desktop {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web applications by using your preferred development environment and tools.  
In this tutorial, you learn how to add the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK to your web applicaiton, as well as how to register the web application with the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}

The {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK is provided as a set of JavaScript files, [and is available at NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ibm-mfp-web-sdk).  
The SDK includes the following files:

- **ibmmfpf.js** - The core of the SDK.
- **ibmmfpfanalytics.js** - Provides support for {{ site.data.keys.mf_analytics }}.

#### Jump to
{: #jump-to }
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK](#adding-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk)
- [Initializing the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK](#initializing-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk)
- [Registering the web application](#registering-the-web-application)
- [Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK](#updating-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk)
- [Same Origin Policy](#same-origin-policy)
- [Secure Origins Policy](#secure-origins-policy)
- [Tutorials to follow next](#tutorials-to-follow-next)

## Prerequisites
{: #prerequisites }
-   See the [supported web browsers](../../../installation-configuration/development/web/#web-app-supported-browsers) prerequisite for setting up the web development environment.

-   To run NPM commands, you must install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org).

## Adding the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK
{: #adding-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk }
To add the SDK to new or existing web applications, first download it to your workstation and then add it to your web application.

### Downloading the SDK
{: #downloading-the-sdk }
1. From a **command-line** window, navigate to your web application's root folder.
2. Run the command: `npm install ibm-mfp-web-sdk`.

This command creates the following directory structure:

![SDK folder contents](sdk-folder.png)

### Adding the SDK
{: #adding-the-sdk }
To add the {{ site.data.keys.product }} Web SDK, reference it in a standard fashion in the web application.  
The SDK also [supports AMD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchronous_module_definition), so that you can use Module Loaders such as [RequireJS](http://requirejs.org/) to load the SDK.

#### Standard
Reference the **ibmmfpf.js** file in the `HEAD` element.  

```html
<head>
    ...
    ...
    <script type="text/javascript" src="node_modules/ibm-mfp-web-sdk/ibmmfpf.js"></script>
</head>
```

#### Using RequireJS

**HTML**  

```html
<script type="text/javascript" src="node_modules/requirejs/require.js" data-main="index"></script>
```

**JavaScript**

```javascript
require.config({
	'paths': {
		'mfp': 'node_modules/ibm-mfp-web-sdk/ibmmfpf'
	}
});

require(['mfp'], function(WL) {
    // application logic.
});
```

> <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-exclamation-sign" aria-hidden="true"></span> **Important:** If adding Analytics support, place the **ibmmfpfanalytics.js** file reference **before** the **ibmmfpf.js** file reference.

## Initializing the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK
{: #initializing-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk }
Initialize the {{ site.data.keys.product }} web SDK by specifying the **context root** and **application ID** values in the main JavaScript file of your web application:

```javascript
var wlInitOptions = {
    mfpContextRoot : '/mfp', // "mfp" is the default context root in the {{ site.data.keys.product }}
    applicationId : 'com.sample.mywebapp' // Replace with your own value.
};

WL.Client.init(wlInitOptions).then (
    function() {
        // Application logic.
});
```

- **mfpContextRoot:** The context root used by the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.
- **applicationId:** The application package name, as defined when you [register the application](#registering-the-web-application).

### Registering the web application
{: #registering-the-web-application }
You can register applications either from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} or from the {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }}.

#### From {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }}
{: #from-mobilefirst-operations-console }
1. Open your favorite browser and load the {{ site.data.keys.mf_console }} by entering the `http://localhost:9080/mfpconsole/` URL.
2. Click the **New** button next to **Applications** to create a new application.
3. Select **Web** as the platform, and provide a name and identifier.
4. Click **Register application**.

![Adding the Web platform](add-web-platform.png)

#### From {{ site.data.keys.mf_cli }}
{: #from-mobilefirst-cli }
From a **command-line** window, navigate to the root folder of the web application and run the command: `mfpdev app register`.

## Updating the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK
{: #updating-the-mobilefirst-web-sdk }
SDK releases can be found in the SDK [NPM repository](https://www.npmjs.com/package/ibm-mfp-web-sdk).  
To update the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK with the latest release:

1. Navigate to the root folder of the web application.
2. Run the command: `npm update ibm-mfp-web-sdk`.

## Same-origin policy
{: #same-origin-policy }
If web resources are hosted on a different server machine than the one that {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }} is installed on, a [same-origin policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Same-origin_policy) violation is triggered. The same-origin-policy security model is designed to protect against potential security threats from unverified sources. According to this policy, a browser allows web resources (such as scripts) to interact only with resources that stem from the same origin (which is defined as a combination of URI scheme, host name, and port number). For more information about the same-origin policy, see The [Web Origin Concept](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454) specification, and specifically [3. Principles of the Same-Origin Policy](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454#section-3).

Web apps that use the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK must be handled in a supporting topology. For example, use a reverse proxy to internally redirect requests to the appropriate server while maintaining the same single origin.

### Alternatives
{: #alternatives }
You can meet the policy requirements by using either of the following methods:

- Serving the web application resources, for example, from the same WebSphere Application Server Liberty profile application server that is used in the {{ site.data.keys.mf_dev_kit_full }}.
- Using Node.js as a reverse proxy to redirect application requests to the {{ site.data.keys.mf_server }}.

> Learn more in [Setting up the Web development environmnt](../../../installation-configuration/development/web) tutorial

## Secure-origins policy
{: secure-origins-policy }
When you use Chrome during development, the browser might not allow an application to load if it uses both HTTP and a host that **is not** `localhost`. The cause is the secure-origins policy that is implemented and used by default in this browser.

To overcome this, you can start the Chrome browser with the following flag:

```bash
--unsafely-treat-insecure-origin-as-secure="http://replace-with-ip-address-or-host:port-number" --user-data-dir=/test-to-new-user-profile/myprofile
```

- Replace "test-to-new-user-profile/myprofile" with the location of a folder that will act as a new Chrome user profile for the flag to work.

Read more about Secure Origins [in this Chormium developer document](https://www.chromium.org/Home/chromium-security/prefer-secure-origins-for-powerful-new-features).

## Tutorials to follow next
{: #tutorials-to-follow-next }
With the {{ site.data.keys.product_adj }} web SDK now integrated, you can now:

- Review the [Using the {{ site.data.keys.product }} SDK tutorials](../)
- Review the [Adapters development tutorials](../../../adapters/)
- Review the [Authentication and security tutorials](../../../authentication-and-security/)
- Review [All Tutorials](../../../all-tutorials)
