tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/api/client-side-api/csharp/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: C# client-side API Reference
breadcrumb_title: C#
weight: 4
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
<br/>
This collection of topics documents the application programming interface (API) for Windows 8 Universal and Windows 10 UWP.  
The following are PDF file downloads.

### C Sharp
{: #c-sharp }
APIs for native Windows 10 UWP and Windows 8 Universal applications.
* **[Client-side API for Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform and Windows 8 Universal apps](http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/products/en/MobileFirstPlatform/docs/v800/mfpf_csharp_win8_native_client_api.pdf)**  
    You can use C# API to develop apps for the Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform (UWP) and Windows 8 Universal environment.

* **[Client-side push API for Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform and Windows 8 Universal apps](http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/products/en/MobileFirstPlatform/docs/v800/mfpf_csharp_win8_native_client_push_api.pdf)**  
    You can use C# push APIs to develop apps which can send push notifications, for the Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform (UWP) and Windows 8 Universal environment.

Commit message:

wi 117392 updating the C# api reference and xamarin tutorials

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/api/client-side-api/csharp/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: C# client-side API Reference
breadcrumb_title: C#
weight: 4
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
<br/>
This collection of topics documents the application programming interface (API) for Windows 8 Universal, Windows 10 UWP and Xamarin iOS and Xamarin android .  
The following are PDF file downloads.

### C Sharp
{: #c-sharp }
APIs for native Windows 10 UWP and Windows 8 Universal applications.
* **[Client-side API for Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform and Windows 8 Universal apps](http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/products/en/MobileFirstPlatform/docs/v800/mfpf_csharp_win8_native_client_api.pdf)**  
    You can use C# API to develop apps for the Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform (UWP) , Windows 8 Universal and also Xamarin iOS and Xamarin android environments .

* **[Client-side push API for Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform and Windows 8 Universal apps](http://public.dhe.ibm.com/software/products/en/MobileFirstPlatform/docs/v800/mfpf_csharp_win8_native_client_push_api.pdf)**  
    You can use C# push APIs to develop apps which can send push notifications, for the Windows 10 Universal Windows Platform (UWP), Windows 8 Universal and Xamarin iOS and Xamarin android environments.
