tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/analytics/console/analytics-data-purge/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Data Retention and Purging
breadcrumb_title: Data Retention and Purging
relevantTo: [ios,android,javascript]
weight: 6
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview

{{ site.data.keys.mf_analytics }} data is stored on the server and is available for reporting until the data is purged. You can control which event-type data is retained or purged. The data can be purged at regular intervals, or manually.


## Configuring data retention from the Analytics Console

1. From the {{ site.data.keys.mf_analytics_console }}, click the **Administration** icon (<img  alt="wrench icon" style="margin:0;display:inline" src="wrench.png"/>).
2. Choose the **Settings** tab.

   ![Data retention configuration](analytics_console_data_retention.png)

   * Select the **Discard** radio button to delete data immediately.
   * In the **Keep data for** column, choose the number of days to retain, or leave the default **Keep data indefinitely** value.

3. Click **Save Changes**.

The new retention policy is in place.

Commit message:

Add custom IDs to the analytics category
Signed-off-by: Idan Adar <iadar@il.ibm.com>

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/analytics/console/analytics-data-purge/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Data Retention and Purging
breadcrumb_title: Data Retention and Purging
relevantTo: [ios,android,javascript]
weight: 6
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{: #overview }

{{ site.data.keys.mf_analytics }} data is stored on the server and is available for reporting until the data is purged. You can control which event-type data is retained or purged. The data can be purged at regular intervals, or manually.

## Configuring data retention from the Analytics Console
{: #configuring-data-retention-from-the-analytics-console }

1. From the {{ site.data.keys.mf_analytics_console }}, click the **Administration** icon (<img  alt="wrench icon" style="margin:0;display:inline" src="wrench.png"/>).
2. Choose the **Settings** tab.

   ![Data retention configuration](analytics_console_data_retention.png)

   * Select the **Discard** radio button to delete data immediately.
   * In the **Keep data for** column, choose the number of days to retain, or leave the default **Keep data indefinitely** value.

3. Click **Save Changes**.

The new retention policy is in place.
