tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/product-overview/index.md, before:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Product Overview
show_children: true
weight: 1
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
IBM MobileFirst Foundation is an integrated platform that helps you extend your business to mobile devices.

IBM MobileFirst Foundation includes a comprehensive development environment, mobile-optimized runtime middleware, a private enterprise application store, and an integrated management and analytics console, all supported by various security mechanisms.

With IBM MobileFirst Foundation, your organization can efficiently develop, connect, run, and manage rich mobile applications (apps) that can access the full capabilities of your target mobile devices. IBM MobileFirst Foundation can help reduce time-to-market, cost, and complexity of development, and enables an optimized customer and employee user experience across multiple environments.

As part of this comprehensive mobile solution, IBM MobileFirst Foundation can be integrated with application lifecycle, security, management, and analytics capabilities to help you address the unique mobile needs of your business.

Find below further information about the product. Main capabilities and product components, system requirements, supported features and release notes.

Commit message:

Use variables in product overview category
Signed-off-by: Idan Adar <iadar@il.ibm.com>

tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/product-overview/index.md, after:

---
layout: tutorial
title: Product Overview
show_children: true
weight: 1
---
<!-- NLS_CHARSET=UTF-8 -->
## Overview
{{ site.data.keys.product_full }} is an integrated platform that helps you extend your business to mobile devices.

{{ site.data.keys.product }} includes a comprehensive development environment, mobile-optimized runtime middleware, a private enterprise application store, and an integrated management and analytics console, all supported by various security mechanisms.

With {{ site.data.keys.product }}, your organization can efficiently develop, connect, run, and manage rich mobile applications (apps) that can access the full capabilities of your target mobile devices. {{ site.data.keys.product }} can help reduce time-to-market, cost, and complexity of development, and enables an optimized customer and employee user experience across multiple environments.

As part of this comprehensive mobile solution, {{ site.data.keys.product }} can be integrated with application lifecycle, security, management, and analytics capabilities to help you address the unique mobile needs of your business.

Find below further information about the product. Main capabilities and product components, system requirements, supported features and release notes.
